Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
=Data Structures are necessary for designing efficient algorithms. It provides reusability and
abstraction . Using appropriate data structure, can help programmers save a good amount of time
while performing operations such as storage, retrieval or processing of data
What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
=Insertion: Add a new data item in the given collection of data items.
 Deletion: Delete an existing data item from the given collection of data items.
 Traversal: Access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
what is an Array?
=An array is a data structure, which can store a fixed-size collection of elements of the
same data type
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
=Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
We cannot change length of array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed
what is LinkedList?
=The LinkedList class is a collection which can contain many objects of the same type,
just like the ArrayList .
How is an Array different from Linked List?
=An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. A linked list is a collection
of objects known as a node where node consists of two parts, data and address. Array elements
store in a contiguous memory location. Linked list elements can be stored anywhere in the memory or randomly stored.
what is queue?
=A Queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed.
what is stack?
= A stack  is an ordered collection of items where the addition of new items and the removal of
existing items always takes place at the same end.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
= The Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) method assumes that the last unit to arrive in inventory or more
recent is sold first. The First-In, First-Out (FIFO) method assumes that the oldest unit of
inventory is the sold first.
what is the order of complexity?
=The complexity can be found in any form such as constant, logarithmic, linear, n*log(n),
quadratic, cubic, exponential, etc. It is nothing but the order of constant, logarithmic,
linear and so on, the number of steps encountered for the completion of a particular algorithm.
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
=Sequential search is the best that we can do when trying to find a value in an unsorted array.
But if the array is sorted in increasing order by value, then we can do much better.
We use a process called binary search.
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
=The worst case complexity is O(n/2) when element is in the middle or not present in the array.
what is tree in data structure?
=A tree structure is an algorithm for placing and locating files (called records or keys) in a database
what is graph in data structure?
=A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are
connected by links. The interconnected objects are represented by points termed as vertices,
and the links that connect the vertices are called edges.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
=The main difference between them is that HashMap is not thread-safe but Hashtable is thread-safe
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
=A HashMap is a map used to store mappings of key-value pairs
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
=The ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException occurs whenever we are trying to access any item of an
array at an index which is not present in the array.
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
=You can use a for loop and copy elements of one to another one by one.
 Use the clone method to clone an array.
 Use arraycopy() method of System class.
 Use copyOf() or copyOfRange() methods of Arrays class
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
=BFS stands for Breadth First Search. DFS stands for Depth First Search
What is Recursion?
=Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
=In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every
elements are attached to its previous and next adjacent. In a non-linear data structure, data
elements are attached in hierarchically manner
What is Big-(O)-notation?
=Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function
when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.
Outline different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
